Manuscript, code, and data for "Unreliable Inferences: A Critique of Partial Observability Models." [[Paper](http://www.carlislerainey.com/files/unreliable.pdf)]

> Methodologists in political science have begun to advocate the partial observability model (i.e., the split population model) as an approach that enables researchers to draw accurate inferences about outcome variables that are only partially observable. Although the partial observability model is theoretically-driven and statistically sound, we suggest that it can lead to large inferential errors. We use simulations to show that seemingly innocuous model specification errors that have little impact under full observability can lead to large biases, including sign errors, under partial observability. To illustrate empirically the misleading inferences that can emerge, we estimate a partial observability model relying on self-reported voter turnout data, arguing that similar, though distinct, processes lead to turning out to vote and misreporting voting if one abstains. We show that using a partial observability model to model the unobserved process leads to worse inferences than ignoring the problem altogether.

If you have any comments or suggestion, please [open an issue](https://github.com/carlislerainey/unreliable-inferences/issues) or just [e-mail](mailto:carlislerainey@gmail.com) me.

To replicate these results, you can use Git to clone this repository or download it as a `.zip` archive. The code for the simulations is a bit of a mess at this point, since I've set it up to add to the simulations on each run rather than replicate them. I'll clean that up at some point in the future. The script `fit-anes.R` replicates the results for the illustration with self-reported turnout data.